docs/io/unified.rst, before:

.. _table_io:

Unified file read/write interface
===================================

Astropy provides a unified interface for reading and writing data
in different formats.  For many common cases this will 
simplify the process of file I/O and reduce the need to master
the separate details of all the I/O packages within Astropy.  This functionality is still in active development and the number of supported formats will be increasing.  For details on the implementation see 
:ref:`io_registry`.

Getting started with Table I/O
------------------------------

The :class:`~astropy.table.table.Table` class includes two methods,
:meth:`~astropy.table.table.Table.read` and
:meth:`~astropy.table.table.Table.write`, that make it possible to read from
and write to files. A number of formats are automatically supported (see
`Built-in readers/writers`_) and new file formats and extensions can be
registered with the :class:`~astropy.table.table.Table` class (see
:ref:`io_registry`). After importing the :class:`~astropy.table.table.Table`
class::

    >>> from astropy.table import Table

the :meth:`~astropy.table.table.Table.read` method should be used as::

    >>> t = Table.read(filename, format='format')

where ``'format'`` is the format of the file to read in, e.g.::

    >>> t = Table.read('photometry.dat', format='daophot')

For certain file formats, the format can be automatically detected, for
example from the filename extension::

    >>> t = Table.read('table.tex')

Similarly, for writing, the format can be explicitly specified::

    >>> t.write(filename, format='format')

but as for the :meth:`~astropy.table.table.Table.read` method, the format may
be automatically identified in some cases.

Any additional arguments specified will depend on the format (see e.g. see
`Built-in readers/writers`_)

.. _built_in_readers_writers:

Built-in table readers/writers
------------------------------

ASCII formats
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The :meth:`~astropy.table.table.Table.read` and
:meth:`~astropy.table.table.Table.write` methods can be used to read and write formats
supported by `astropy.io.ascii`:

IPAC
""""""

`IPAC tables <http://irsa.ipac.caltech.edu/applications/DDGEN/Doc/ipac_tbl.html>`_
can be read with ``format='ipac'``::

  >>> t = Table.read('2mass.tbl', format='ipac')

Note that there are different conventions for characters occuring below the
position of the ``|`` symbol in IPAC tables. By default, any character
below a ``|`` will be ignored (since this is the current standard),
but if you need to read files that assume characters below the ``|``
symbols belong to the column before or after the ``|``, you can specify
``definition='left'`` or ``definition='right'`` respectively when reading
the table (the default is ``definition='ignore'``). The following examples demonstrate the different conventions:

* ``definition='ignore'``::

    |   ra  |  dec  |
    | float | float |
      1.2345  6.7890

* ``definition='left'``::

    |   ra  |  dec  |
    | float | float |
       1.2345  6.7890

* ``definition='right'``::

    |   ra  |  dec  |
    | float | float |
    1.2345  6.7890


Advanced information is available in the :class:`~astropy.io.ascii.ipac.Ipac`
class (any arguments apart from the filename and ``format`` are passed to
this class when ``format='ipac'``).

CDS/Machine Readable
"""""""""""""""""""""

`CDS/Machine readable tables <http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/doc/catstd.htx>`_ can be read with ``format='cds'``::

    >>> t = Table.read('aj285677t3.txt', format='cds')

If the table definition is given in a separate ``ReadMe`` file, this can be
specified with::

    >>> t = Table.read('aj285677t3.txt', format='cds', readme="ReadMe")

Advanced information is available in the :class:`~astropy.io.ascii.cds.Cds`
class (any arguments apart from the filename and ``format`` are passed to
this class when ``format='cds'``).

DAOPhot
""""""""""

`DAOPhot <http://stsdas.stsci.edu/cgi-bin/gethelp.cgi?daophot.hlp>`_ tables
can be read with ``format='daophot'``::

  >>> t = Table.read('photometry.dat', format='daophot')

Advanced information is available in the
:class:`~astropy.io.ascii.daophot.Daophot` class (any arguments apart from
the filename and ``format`` are passed to this class when
``format='daophot'``).

LaTeX
"""""""""""

`LaTeX <http://www.latex-project.org/>`_ tables can be read and written with
``format='latex'``. Provided the ``.tex``` extension is used, the format does
not need to be explicitly specified::

      >>> t = Table.read('paper_table.tex')
      >>> t.write('new_paper_table.tex')

If a different extension is used, the format should be specified::

      >>> t.write('new_paper_table.inc', format='latex')

Advanced information is available in the
:class:`~astropy.io.ascii.latex.Latex` class (any arguments apart from the
filename and ``format`` are passed to this class  when ``format='latex'``).

RDB
"""""""

`RDB <http://hea-www.harvard.edu/MST/simul/software/docs/rdb.html>`_ tables
can be read and written with ``format='rdb'`` Provided the ``.rdb`` extension
is used, the format does not need to be explicitly specified::

      >>> t = Table.read('discovery_data.rdb')
      >>> t.write('updated_data.rdb')

If a different extension is used, the format should be specified::

      >>> t.write('updated_data.txt', format='rdb')

Advanced information is available in the :class:`~astropy.io.ascii.basic.Rdb`
class (any arguments apart from the filename and ``format`` are passed to
this class when ``format='rdb'``).

Arbitrary ASCII formats
"""""""""""""""""""""""""

``format='ascii'`` can be used to interface to the bare
:func:`~astropy.io.ascii.ui.read` and :func:`~astropy.io.ascii.ui.write`
functions from `astropy.io.ascii`, e.g.::

       >>> t = Table.read('table.tex', format='ascii')

All additional arguments are passed to the `astropy.io.ascii`
:func:`~astropy.io.ascii.ui.read` and
:func:`~astropy.io.ascii.ui.write`. For example, in the following case::

       >>> t = Table.read('photometry.dat', format='ascii', data_start=2, delimiter='|')

the ``data_start`` and ``delimiter`` arguments are passed to the
:func:`~astropy.io.ascii.ui.read` function from `astropy.io.ascii` (and
similarly for writing).

FITS
^^^^

Reading/writing from/to `FITS <http://fits.gsfc.nasa.gov/>`_
files is supported with ``format='fits'``. In most cases, existing FITS
files should be automatically identified as such based on the header of the
file, but if not, or if writing to disk, then the format should be explicitly
specified.

If a FITS table file only contains a single table, then it can be read in
with::

    >>> t = Table.read('data.fits')

If more that one table are present in the file, the first table found will be
read in and a warning will be emitted::

    >>> t = Table.read('data.fits')
    WARNING: hdu= was not specified but multiple tables are present, reading in first available table (hdu=1) [astropy.io.fits.connect]

To write to a new file::

    >>> t.write('new_table.fits')

HDF5
^^^^^^^^

Reading/writing from/to `HDF5 <http://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/>`_ files is
supported with ``format='hdf5'`` (this requires `h5py
<http://code.google.com/p/h5py/>`_ to be installed). However, the ``.hdf5``
file extension is automatically recognized when writing files, and HDF5 files
are automatically identified (even with a different extension) when reading
in (using the first few bytes of the file to identify the format), so in most
cases you will not need to explicitly specify ``format='hdf5'``.

Since HDF5 files can contain multiple tables, the full path to the table
should be specified via the ``path=`` argument when reading and writing.
For example, to read a table called ``data`` from an HDF5 file named
``observations.hdf5``, you can do::

    >>> t = Table.read('observations.hdf5', path='data')

To read a table nested in a group in the HDF5 file, you can do::

    >>> t = Table.read('observations.hdf5', path='group/data')

To write a table to a new file, the path should also be specified::

    >>> t.write('new_file.hdf5', path='updated_data')

It is also possible to write a table to an existing file using ``append=True``::

    >>> t.write('observations.hdf5', path='updated_data', append=True)

Finally, when writing to HDF5 files, the ``compression=`` argument can be
used to ensure that the data is compressed on disk::

    >>> t.write('new_file.hdf5', path='updated_data', compression=True)

As with other formats, the ``overwrite=True`` argument is supported for
overwriting existing files.

VO Tables
^^^^^^^^^^^

Reading/writing from/to `VO table <http://www.ivoa.net/Documents/VOTable/>`_
files is supported with ``format='votable'``. In most cases, existing VO
tables should be automatically identified as such based on the header of the
file, but if not, or if writing to disk, then the format should be explicitly
specified.

If a VO table file only contains a single table, then it can be read in with::

    >>> t = Table.read('aj285677t3_votable.xml')

If more that one table are present in the file, an error will be raised,
unless the table ID is specified via the ``table_id=`` argument::

    >>> t = Table.read('catalog.xml')
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
      File "/Volumes/Raptor/Library/Python/2.7/lib/python/site-packages/astropy/table/table.py", line 1559, in read
        table = reader(*args, **kwargs)
      File "/Volumes/Raptor/Library/Python/2.7/lib/python/site-packages/astropy/io/votable/connect.py", line 44, in read_table_votable
        raise ValueError("Multiple tables found: table id should be set via the id= argument. The available tables are " + ', '.join(tables.keys()))
    ValueError: Multiple tables found: table id should be set via the table_id= argument. The available tables are twomass, spitzer

    >>> t = Table.read('catalog.xml', table_id='twomass')

To write to a new file, the ID of the table should also be specified (unless
``t.meta['ID']`` is defined)::

    >>> t.write('new_catalog.xml', table_id='updated_table', format='votable')

When writing, the ``compression=True`` argument can be used to force
compression of the data on disk, and the ``overwrite=True`` argument can be
used to overwrite an existing file.

Commit message:

Added note about ``meta`` changing in future

docs/io/unified.rst, after:

.. _table_io:

Unified file read/write interface
===================================

Astropy provides a unified interface for reading and writing data
in different formats.  For many common cases this will
simplify the process of file I/O and reduce the need to master
the separate details of all the I/O packages within Astropy.  This functionality is still in active development and the number of supported formats will be increasing.  For details on the implementation see
:ref:`io_registry`.

Getting started with Table I/O
------------------------------

The :class:`~astropy.table.table.Table` class includes two methods,
:meth:`~astropy.table.table.Table.read` and
:meth:`~astropy.table.table.Table.write`, that make it possible to read from
and write to files. A number of formats are automatically supported (see
`Built-in readers/writers`_) and new file formats and extensions can be
registered with the :class:`~astropy.table.table.Table` class (see
:ref:`io_registry`). After importing the :class:`~astropy.table.table.Table`
class::

    >>> from astropy.table import Table

the :meth:`~astropy.table.table.Table.read` method should be used as::

    >>> t = Table.read(filename, format='format')

where ``'format'`` is the format of the file to read in, e.g.::

    >>> t = Table.read('photometry.dat', format='daophot')

For certain file formats, the format can be automatically detected, for
example from the filename extension::

    >>> t = Table.read('table.tex')

Similarly, for writing, the format can be explicitly specified::

    >>> t.write(filename, format='format')

but as for the :meth:`~astropy.table.table.Table.read` method, the format may
be automatically identified in some cases.

Any additional arguments specified will depend on the format (see e.g. see
`Built-in readers/writers`_)

.. _built_in_readers_writers:

Built-in table readers/writers
------------------------------

ASCII formats
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The :meth:`~astropy.table.table.Table.read` and
:meth:`~astropy.table.table.Table.write` methods can be used to read and write formats
supported by `astropy.io.ascii`:

IPAC
""""""

`IPAC tables <http://irsa.ipac.caltech.edu/applications/DDGEN/Doc/ipac_tbl.html>`_
can be read with ``format='ipac'``::

  >>> t = Table.read('2mass.tbl', format='ipac')

Note that there are different conventions for characters occuring below the
position of the ``|`` symbol in IPAC tables. By default, any character
below a ``|`` will be ignored (since this is the current standard),
but if you need to read files that assume characters below the ``|``
symbols belong to the column before or after the ``|``, you can specify
``definition='left'`` or ``definition='right'`` respectively when reading
the table (the default is ``definition='ignore'``). The following examples demonstrate the different conventions:

* ``definition='ignore'``::

    |   ra  |  dec  |
    | float | float |
      1.2345  6.7890

* ``definition='left'``::

    |   ra  |  dec  |
    | float | float |
       1.2345  6.7890

* ``definition='right'``::

    |   ra  |  dec  |
    | float | float |
    1.2345  6.7890


Advanced information is available in the :class:`~astropy.io.ascii.ipac.Ipac`
class (any arguments apart from the filename and ``format`` are passed to
this class when ``format='ipac'``).

CDS/Machine Readable
"""""""""""""""""""""

`CDS/Machine readable tables <http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/doc/catstd.htx>`_ can be read with ``format='cds'``::

    >>> t = Table.read('aj285677t3.txt', format='cds')

If the table definition is given in a separate ``ReadMe`` file, this can be
specified with::

    >>> t = Table.read('aj285677t3.txt', format='cds', readme="ReadMe")

Advanced information is available in the :class:`~astropy.io.ascii.cds.Cds`
class (any arguments apart from the filename and ``format`` are passed to
this class when ``format='cds'``).

DAOPhot
""""""""""

`DAOPhot <http://stsdas.stsci.edu/cgi-bin/gethelp.cgi?daophot.hlp>`_ tables
can be read with ``format='daophot'``::

  >>> t = Table.read('photometry.dat', format='daophot')

Advanced information is available in the
:class:`~astropy.io.ascii.daophot.Daophot` class (any arguments apart from
the filename and ``format`` are passed to this class when
``format='daophot'``).

LaTeX
"""""""""""

`LaTeX <http://www.latex-project.org/>`_ tables can be read and written with
``format='latex'``. Provided the ``.tex``` extension is used, the format does
not need to be explicitly specified::

      >>> t = Table.read('paper_table.tex')
      >>> t.write('new_paper_table.tex')

If a different extension is used, the format should be specified::

      >>> t.write('new_paper_table.inc', format='latex')

Advanced information is available in the
:class:`~astropy.io.ascii.latex.Latex` class (any arguments apart from the
filename and ``format`` are passed to this class  when ``format='latex'``).

RDB
"""""""

`RDB <http://hea-www.harvard.edu/MST/simul/software/docs/rdb.html>`_ tables
can be read and written with ``format='rdb'`` Provided the ``.rdb`` extension
is used, the format does not need to be explicitly specified::

      >>> t = Table.read('discovery_data.rdb')
      >>> t.write('updated_data.rdb')

If a different extension is used, the format should be specified::

      >>> t.write('updated_data.txt', format='rdb')

Advanced information is available in the :class:`~astropy.io.ascii.basic.Rdb`
class (any arguments apart from the filename and ``format`` are passed to
this class when ``format='rdb'``).

Arbitrary ASCII formats
"""""""""""""""""""""""""

``format='ascii'`` can be used to interface to the bare
:func:`~astropy.io.ascii.ui.read` and :func:`~astropy.io.ascii.ui.write`
functions from `astropy.io.ascii`, e.g.::

       >>> t = Table.read('table.tex', format='ascii')

All additional arguments are passed to the `astropy.io.ascii`
:func:`~astropy.io.ascii.ui.read` and
:func:`~astropy.io.ascii.ui.write`. For example, in the following case::

       >>> t = Table.read('photometry.dat', format='ascii', data_start=2, delimiter='|')

the ``data_start`` and ``delimiter`` arguments are passed to the
:func:`~astropy.io.ascii.ui.read` function from `astropy.io.ascii` (and
similarly for writing).

FITS
^^^^

Reading/writing from/to `FITS <http://fits.gsfc.nasa.gov/>`_
files is supported with ``format='fits'``. In most cases, existing FITS
files should be automatically identified as such based on the header of the
file, but if not, or if writing to disk, then the format should be explicitly
specified.

If a FITS table file only contains a single table, then it can be read in
with::

    >>> t = Table.read('data.fits')

If more that one table are present in the file, the first table found will be
read in and a warning will be emitted::

    >>> t = Table.read('data.fits')
    WARNING: hdu= was not specified but multiple tables are present, reading in first available table (hdu=1) [astropy.io.fits.connect]

To write to a new file::

    >>> t.write('new_table.fits')

At this time, the ``meta`` attribute of the
:class:`~astropy.table.table.Table` class is simply an ordered
dictionary and does not fully reprepsent the structure of a FITS
header (for example, keyword comments are dropped). This is likely
to change in a future release.

HDF5
^^^^^^^^

Reading/writing from/to `HDF5 <http://www.hdfgroup.org/HDF5/>`_ files is
supported with ``format='hdf5'`` (this requires `h5py
<http://code.google.com/p/h5py/>`_ to be installed). However, the ``.hdf5``
file extension is automatically recognized when writing files, and HDF5 files
are automatically identified (even with a different extension) when reading
in (using the first few bytes of the file to identify the format), so in most
cases you will not need to explicitly specify ``format='hdf5'``.

Since HDF5 files can contain multiple tables, the full path to the table
should be specified via the ``path=`` argument when reading and writing.
For example, to read a table called ``data`` from an HDF5 file named
``observations.hdf5``, you can do::

    >>> t = Table.read('observations.hdf5', path='data')

To read a table nested in a group in the HDF5 file, you can do::

    >>> t = Table.read('observations.hdf5', path='group/data')

To write a table to a new file, the path should also be specified::

    >>> t.write('new_file.hdf5', path='updated_data')

It is also possible to write a table to an existing file using ``append=True``::

    >>> t.write('observations.hdf5', path='updated_data', append=True)

Finally, when writing to HDF5 files, the ``compression=`` argument can be
used to ensure that the data is compressed on disk::

    >>> t.write('new_file.hdf5', path='updated_data', compression=True)

As with other formats, the ``overwrite=True`` argument is supported for
overwriting existing files.

VO Tables
^^^^^^^^^^^

Reading/writing from/to `VO table <http://www.ivoa.net/Documents/VOTable/>`_
files is supported with ``format='votable'``. In most cases, existing VO
tables should be automatically identified as such based on the header of the
file, but if not, or if writing to disk, then the format should be explicitly
specified.

If a VO table file only contains a single table, then it can be read in with::

    >>> t = Table.read('aj285677t3_votable.xml')

If more that one table are present in the file, an error will be raised,
unless the table ID is specified via the ``table_id=`` argument::

    >>> t = Table.read('catalog.xml')
    Traceback (most recent call last):
      File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
      File "/Volumes/Raptor/Library/Python/2.7/lib/python/site-packages/astropy/table/table.py", line 1559, in read
        table = reader(*args, **kwargs)
      File "/Volumes/Raptor/Library/Python/2.7/lib/python/site-packages/astropy/io/votable/connect.py", line 44, in read_table_votable
        raise ValueError("Multiple tables found: table id should be set via the id= argument. The available tables are " + ', '.join(tables.keys()))
    ValueError: Multiple tables found: table id should be set via the table_id= argument. The available tables are twomass, spitzer

    >>> t = Table.read('catalog.xml', table_id='twomass')

To write to a new file, the ID of the table should also be specified (unless
``t.meta['ID']`` is defined)::

    >>> t.write('new_catalog.xml', table_id='updated_table', format='votable')

When writing, the ``compression=True`` argument can be used to force
compression of the data on disk, and the ``overwrite=True`` argument can be
used to overwrite an existing file.
