docs/io/ascii/write.rst, before:

.. _astropy.io.ascii_write:

.. include:: references.txt

Writing tables
--------------

:mod:`astropy.io.ascii` is able to write ASCII tables out to a file or file-like
object using the same class structure and basic user interface as for reading
tables.  

The |write| function provides a way to write a data table as a formatted ASCII table.  For example::

  >>> from astropy.io import ascii
  >>> x = np.array([1, 2, 3])
  >>> y = x ** 2
  >>> ascii.write([x, y], 'values.dat', names=['x', 'y'])

The ``values.dat`` file will then contain::

  x y
  1 1
  2 4
  3 9

All of the input Reader table formats supported by `astropy.io.ascii` for
reading are also supported for writing.  This provides a great deal of
flexibility in the format for writing.  The example below writes the data as a
LaTeX table, using the option to send the output to ``sys.stdout`` instead of a
file::

  >>> ascii.write(data, sys.stdout, Writer=ascii.Latex)
  \begin{table}
  \begin{tabular}{cc}
  x & y \\
  1 & 1 \\
  2 & 4 \\
  3 & 9 \\
  \end{tabular}
  \end{table}

Input data format
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The input `table` argument to |write| can be any value that is supported for
initializing a |Table| object.  This is documented in detail in the
:ref:`construct_table` section and includes creating a table with a list of
columns, a dictionary of columns, or from `numpy` arrays (either structured or
homogeneous).  The sections below show a few examples.

Table or NumPy structured array
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

An AstroPy |Table| object or a NumPy `structured array`_ (or record array) can
serve as input to the |write| function.

::

    >>> from astropy.io import ascii
    >>> from astropy.table import Table

    >>> data = Table({'a': [1, 2, 3],
                      'b': [4.0, 5.0, 6.0]},
                     names=['a', 'b'])
    >>> ascii.write(data, sys.stdout)
    a b
    1 4.0
    2 5.0
    3 6.0

    >>> data = np.array([(1, 2., 'Hello'), (2, 3., "World")],
                        dtype=('i4,f4,a10'))
    >>> ascii.write(data, sys.stdout)
    f0 f1 f2
    1 2.0 Hello
    2 3.0 World

The output of :mod:`astropy.io.ascii.read` is a |Table| or NumPy array data
object that can be an input to the |write| function.

::

    >>> data = astropy.io.ascii.read('t/daophot.dat', Reader=astropy.io.ascii.Daophot)
    >>> astropy.io.ascii.write(data, 'space_delimited_table.dat')


List of lists
"""""""""""""

A list of Python lists (or any iterable object) can be used as input::

    >>> x = [1, 2, 3]
    >>> y = [4, 5.2, 6.1]
    >>> z = ['hello', 'world', '!!!']
    >>> data = [x, y, z]

    >>> ascii.write(data, sys.stdout)
    col0 col1 col2
    1 4.0 hello
    2 5.2 world
    3 6.1 !!!

The `data` object does not contain information about the column names so
|Table| has chosen them automatically.  To specify the names, provide the
`names` keyword argument.  This example also shows excluding one of the columns
from the output::

    >>> ascii.write(data, sys.stdout, names=['x', 'y', 'z'], exclude_names=['y'])
    x z
    1 hello
    2 world
    3 !!!


Dict of lists
"""""""""""""

A dictionary containing iterable objects can serve as input to |write|.  Each
dict key is taken as the column name while the value must be an iterable object
containing the corresponding column values.

Since a Python dictionary is not ordered the output column order will be
unpredictable unless the ``names`` argument is provided.

::

    >>> data = {'x': [1, 2, 3], 
                'y': [4, 5.2, 6.1], 
                'z': ['hello', 'world', '!!!']}
    >>> ascii.write(data, sys.stdout, names=['x', 'y', 'z'])
    x y z
    1 4.0 hello
    2 5.2 world
    3 6.1 !!!


Parameters for ``write()``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The |write| function accepts a number of parameters that specify the detailed
output table format.  Different Reader classes can define different defaults, so the
descriptions below sometimes mention "typical" default values.  This refers to
the :class:`~astropy.io.ascii.Basic` reader and other similar Reader classes.

Some Reader classes, e.g. :class:`~astropy.io.ascii.Latex` or :class:`~astropy.io.ascii.AASTex`
accept aditional keywords, that can customize the output further. See the documentation
of these classes for details.

**output** : output specifier
  There are two ways to specify the output for the write operation:

  - Name of a file (string)
  - File-like object (from open(), StringIO, etc)

**table** : input table 
  Any value that is supported for initializing a |Table| object (see :ref:`construct_table`).

**Writer** : Writer class (default= :class:`~astropy.io.ascii.Basic`)
  This specifies the top-level format of the ASCII table to be written, for
  example if it is a basic character delimited table, fixed format table, or a
  CDS-compatible table, etc.  The value of this parameter must be a Reader
  class.  For basic usage this means one of the built-in :ref:`extension_reader_classes`.
  Note: Reader classes and Writer classes are synonymous, in other
  words Reader classes can also write, but for historical reasons they are
  called Reader classes.

**delimiter** : column delimiter string
  A one-character string used to separate fields which typically defaults to the space character.
  Other common values might be "," or "|" or "\\t".

**comment** : string defining a comment line in table
  For the :class:`~astropy.io.ascii.Basic` Reader this defaults to "#". 

**formats**: dict of data type converters
  For each key (column name) use the given value to convert the column data to a string.  
  If the format value is string-like then it is used as a Python format statement,
  e.g. '%0.2f' % value.  If it is a callable function then that function
  is called with a single argument containing the column value to be converted.
  Example::

    astropy.io.ascii.write(table, sys.stdout, formats={'XCENTER': '%12.1f',
                                                 'YCENTER': lambda x: round(x, 1)},

**names**: list of names corresponding to each data column
  Define the complete list of names for each data column.  This will override
  names determined from the data table (if available).  If not supplied then
  use names from the data table or auto-generated names.

**include_names**: list of names to include in output
  From the list of column names found from the data table or the ``names``
  parameter, select for output only columns within this list.  If not supplied
  then include all names.
  
**exclude_names**: list of names to exlude from output
  Exclude these names from the list of output columns.  This is applied *after*
  the ``include_names`` filtering.  If not specified then no columns are excluded.

**fill_values**: fill value specifier of lists
  This can be used to fill missing values in the table or replace values with special meaning.
  The syntax is the same as used on input.
  See the :ref:`replace_bad_or_missing_values` section for more information on the syntax.
  When writing a table, all values are converted to strings, before any value is replaced. Thus,
  you need to provide the string representation (stripped of whitespace) for each value.
  Example::

    astropy.io.ascii.write(table, sys.stdout, fill_values = [('nan', 'no data'),
                                                       ('-999.0', 'no data')])

**fill_include_names**: list of column names, which are affected by ``fill_values``.
  If not supplied, then ``fill_values`` can affect all columns.

**fill_exclude_names**: list of column names, which are not affected by ``fill_values``.
  If not supplied, then ``fill_values`` can affect all columns.

Commit message:

fixes a small bug that prevented changes in the comment symbol on writing
closes #790

docs/io/ascii/write.rst, after:

.. _astropy.io.ascii_write:

.. include:: references.txt

Writing tables
--------------

:mod:`astropy.io.ascii` is able to write ASCII tables out to a file or file-like
object using the same class structure and basic user interface as for reading
tables.  

The |write| function provides a way to write a data table as a formatted ASCII table.  For example::

  >>> from astropy.io import ascii
  >>> x = np.array([1, 2, 3])
  >>> y = x ** 2
  >>> ascii.write([x, y], 'values.dat', names=['x', 'y'])

The ``values.dat`` file will then contain::

  x y
  1 1
  2 4
  3 9

All of the input Reader table formats supported by `astropy.io.ascii` for
reading are also supported for writing.  This provides a great deal of
flexibility in the format for writing.  The example below writes the data as a
LaTeX table, using the option to send the output to ``sys.stdout`` instead of a
file::

  >>> ascii.write(data, sys.stdout, Writer=ascii.Latex)
  \begin{table}
  \begin{tabular}{cc}
  x & y \\
  1 & 1 \\
  2 & 4 \\
  3 & 9 \\
  \end{tabular}
  \end{table}

Input data format
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The input `table` argument to |write| can be any value that is supported for
initializing a |Table| object.  This is documented in detail in the
:ref:`construct_table` section and includes creating a table with a list of
columns, a dictionary of columns, or from `numpy` arrays (either structured or
homogeneous).  The sections below show a few examples.

Table or NumPy structured array
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""

An AstroPy |Table| object or a NumPy `structured array`_ (or record array) can
serve as input to the |write| function.

::

    >>> from astropy.io import ascii
    >>> from astropy.table import Table

    >>> data = Table({'a': [1, 2, 3],
                      'b': [4.0, 5.0, 6.0]},
                     names=['a', 'b'])
    >>> ascii.write(data, sys.stdout)
    a b
    1 4.0
    2 5.0
    3 6.0

    >>> data = np.array([(1, 2., 'Hello'), (2, 3., "World")],
                        dtype=('i4,f4,a10'))
    >>> ascii.write(data, sys.stdout)
    f0 f1 f2
    1 2.0 Hello
    2 3.0 World

The output of :mod:`astropy.io.ascii.read` is a |Table| or NumPy array data
object that can be an input to the |write| function.

::

    >>> data = astropy.io.ascii.read('t/daophot.dat', Reader=astropy.io.ascii.Daophot)
    >>> astropy.io.ascii.write(data, 'space_delimited_table.dat')


List of lists
"""""""""""""

A list of Python lists (or any iterable object) can be used as input::

    >>> x = [1, 2, 3]
    >>> y = [4, 5.2, 6.1]
    >>> z = ['hello', 'world', '!!!']
    >>> data = [x, y, z]

    >>> ascii.write(data, sys.stdout)
    col0 col1 col2
    1 4.0 hello
    2 5.2 world
    3 6.1 !!!

The `data` object does not contain information about the column names so
|Table| has chosen them automatically.  To specify the names, provide the
`names` keyword argument.  This example also shows excluding one of the columns
from the output::

    >>> ascii.write(data, sys.stdout, names=['x', 'y', 'z'], exclude_names=['y'])
    x z
    1 hello
    2 world
    3 !!!


Dict of lists
"""""""""""""

A dictionary containing iterable objects can serve as input to |write|.  Each
dict key is taken as the column name while the value must be an iterable object
containing the corresponding column values.

Since a Python dictionary is not ordered the output column order will be
unpredictable unless the ``names`` argument is provided.

::

    >>> data = {'x': [1, 2, 3], 
                'y': [4, 5.2, 6.1], 
                'z': ['hello', 'world', '!!!']}
    >>> ascii.write(data, sys.stdout, names=['x', 'y', 'z'])
    x y z
    1 4.0 hello
    2 5.2 world
    3 6.1 !!!


Parameters for ``write()``
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The |write| function accepts a number of parameters that specify the detailed
output table format.  Different Reader classes can define different defaults, so the
descriptions below sometimes mention "typical" default values.  This refers to
the :class:`~astropy.io.ascii.Basic` reader and other similar Reader classes.

Some Reader classes, e.g. :class:`~astropy.io.ascii.Latex` or :class:`~astropy.io.ascii.AASTex`
accept aditional keywords, that can customize the output further. See the documentation
of these classes for details.

**output** : output specifier
  There are two ways to specify the output for the write operation:

  - Name of a file (string)
  - File-like object (from open(), StringIO, etc)

**table** : input table 
  Any value that is supported for initializing a |Table| object (see :ref:`construct_table`).

**Writer** : Writer class (default= :class:`~astropy.io.ascii.Basic`)
  This specifies the top-level format of the ASCII table to be written, for
  example if it is a basic character delimited table, fixed format table, or a
  CDS-compatible table, etc.  The value of this parameter must be a Reader
  class.  For basic usage this means one of the built-in :ref:`extension_reader_classes`.
  Note: Reader classes and Writer classes are synonymous, in other
  words Reader classes can also write, but for historical reasons they are
  called Reader classes.

**delimiter** : column delimiter string
  A one-character string used to separate fields which typically defaults to the space character.
  Other common values might be "," or "|" or "\\t".

**write_comment** : string defining a comment line in table
  For the :class:`~astropy.io.ascii.Basic` Writer this defaults to "#". 
  It depends on the Writer chosen, which and how comments are written (e.g.
  :class:`~astropy.io.ascii.CommentedHeader` puts the comment symbol in the line
  with the column names).

**formats**: dict of data type converters
  For each key (column name) use the given value to convert the column data to a string.  
  If the format value is string-like then it is used as a Python format statement,
  e.g. '%0.2f' % value.  If it is a callable function then that function
  is called with a single argument containing the column value to be converted.
  Example::

    astropy.io.ascii.write(table, sys.stdout, formats={'XCENTER': '%12.1f',
                                                 'YCENTER': lambda x: round(x, 1)},

**names**: list of names corresponding to each data column
  Define the complete list of names for each data column.  This will override
  names determined from the data table (if available).  If not supplied then
  use names from the data table or auto-generated names.

**include_names**: list of names to include in output
  From the list of column names found from the data table or the ``names``
  parameter, select for output only columns within this list.  If not supplied
  then include all names.
  
**exclude_names**: list of names to exlude from output
  Exclude these names from the list of output columns.  This is applied *after*
  the ``include_names`` filtering.  If not specified then no columns are excluded.

**fill_values**: fill value specifier of lists
  This can be used to fill missing values in the table or replace values with special meaning.
  The syntax is the same as used on input.
  See the :ref:`replace_bad_or_missing_values` section for more information on the syntax.
  When writing a table, all values are converted to strings, before any value is replaced. Thus,
  you need to provide the string representation (stripped of whitespace) for each value.
  Example::

    astropy.io.ascii.write(table, sys.stdout, fill_values = [('nan', 'no data'),
                                                       ('-999.0', 'no data')])

**fill_include_names**: list of column names, which are affected by ``fill_values``.
  If not supplied, then ``fill_values`` can affect all columns.

**fill_exclude_names**: list of column names, which are not affected by ``fill_values``.
  If not supplied, then ``fill_values`` can affect all columns.
