docs/modeling/fitting.rst, before:

**********************
Fitting Models to data
**********************

This module provides wrappers, called Fitters, around some Numpy and Scipy 
fitting functions. All Fitters can be called as functions. They take an instance of 
`~astropy.modeling.core.ParametricModel` as input and modify 
`~astropy.modeling.core.ParametricModel.parameters`
attribute. The idea is to make this extensible and allow users to easily add 
other fitters.

Linear fitting is done using Numpy's `~numpy.linalg.lstsq` function.
There are currently two non-linear fitters which use `~scipy.optimize.leastsq`
and `~scipy.optimize.slsqp`.

The rules for passing input to fitters are:

* Non-linear fitters work only with single data sets

* The linear fitter can fit single input to multiple data sets creating multiple 
  parameter sets. For example fitting a 2D model with input x, y arrays 
  of shape (n, m) to a z array of shape (p, n, m), will set 
  model.parameters.n_inputs to p, even if it was 1 when the model was created.

* Attempting to fit a model with multiple parameter sets to a single 
  data set results in an error.



Fitting Examples
----------------

- Fitting simultaneously a polynomial model to multiple data sets


>>> p1 = models.Poly1DModel(3)
>>> p1.c0 = 1
>>> p1.c1 = 2
>>> p1.parameters
[1.0, 2.0, 0.0, 0.0]
>>> x = np.arange(10)
>>> y = p1(x)
>>> yy = np.array([y, y]).T
>>> p2 = models.Poly1DModel(3, param_dim=2)
>>> pfit = fitting.LinearLSQFitter(p2)
>>> pfit(x,yy)
>>> print p2.param_sets
array([[  1.00000000e+00,   1.00000000e+00],
       [  2.00000000e+00,   2.00000000e+00],
       [  3.91115939e-16,   3.91115939e-16],
       [ -2.99676984e-17,  -2.99676984e-17]])

Fitters support constraint fitting through `~astropy.modeling.constraints.Constraints`.

- All fitters support fixed (frozen) parameters through the `fixed`
  argument to models or setting the `~astropy.modeling.parameters.Parameter.fixed`
  attribute directly on a parameter.

For linear fitters freezing a polynomial coefficient means that a 
polynomial without that term will be fitted to the data. For example, fixing
c0 in a polynomial model will fit a polynomial with the zero-th order term missing.

>>> x = np.arange(1, 10, .1)
>>> p1 = models.Poly1DModel(2, param_dim=2)
>>> p1.parameters = [1, 1, 2, 2, 3, 3]
>>> p1.param_sets
array([[ 1.,  1.],
       [ 2.,  2.],
       [ 3.,  3.]])
>>> y = p1(x)
>>> p1.c1.fixed = True
>>> pfit = fitting.LinearLSQFitter(p1)
>>> pfit(x, y)
>>> p1.param_sets
array([[ 5.50225913,  5.50225913],
       [ 2.        ,  2.        ],
       [ 3.17551299,  3.17551299]])

       
- A parameter can be `~astropy.modeling.parameters.Parameter.tied`
  (linked to another parameter). This can be done in two ways:

>>> def tiedfunc(g1):
    ...    mean = 3 * g1.stddev[0]
    ...    return mean
>>> g1 = models.Gaussian1DModel(amplitude=10., mean=3, stddev=.5, tied={'mean': tiedfunc})

or

>>> g1 = models.Gaussian1DModel(amplitude=10., mean=3, stddev=.5)
>>> g1.mean.tied = tiedfunc
>>> gfit = fitting.NonLinearLSQFitter(g1)


- Print a list of available fitting constraints

>>> fitting.constraintsdef
{'LinearLSQFitter': ['fixed'],
 'NonLinearLSQFitter': ['fixed', 'tied', 'bounds'],
 'SLSQPFitter': ['bounds', 'eqcons', 'ineqcons', 'fixed', 'tied']}

Commit message:

Fixed Legendre2DModel evaluation. Renamed utils.pmapdomain --> utils.poly_map_domain, xdomain --> x_domain, ydomain --> y_domain. Added dummy parameters to all polynomial derivatives to allow fitting of polynomials with non-linear fitters.

docs/modeling/fitting.rst, after:

**********************
Fitting Models to data
**********************

This module provides wrappers, called Fitters, around some Numpy and Scipy
fitting functions. All Fitters can be called as functions. They take an instance of
`~astropy.modeling.core.ParametricModel` as input and modify
`~astropy.modeling.core.ParametricModel.parameters`
attribute. The idea is to make this extensible and allow users to easily add
other fitters.

Linear fitting is done using Numpy's `~numpy.linalg.lstsq` function.
There are currently two non-linear fitters which use `~scipy.optimize.leastsq`
and `~scipy.optimize.slsqp`.

The rules for passing input to fitters are:

* Non-linear fitters work only with single data sets

* The linear fitter can fit single input to multiple data sets creating multiple
  parameter sets. For example fitting a 2D model with input x, y arrays
  of shape (n, m) to a z array of shape (p, n, m), will set
  model.parameters.n_inputs to p, even if it was 1 when the model was created.

* Attempting to fit a model with multiple parameter sets to a single
  data set results in an error.



Fitting Examples
----------------

- Fitting simultaneously a polynomial model to multiple data sets


>>> p1 = models.Poly1DModel(3)
>>> p1.c0 = 1
>>> p1.c1 = 2
>>> p1.parameters
[1.0, 2.0, 0.0, 0.0]
>>> x = np.arange(10)
>>> y = p1(x)
>>> yy = np.array([y, y]).T
>>> p2 = models.Poly1DModel(3, param_dim=2)
>>> pfit = fitting.LinearLSQFitter(p2)
>>> pfit(x,yy)
>>> print p2.param_sets
array([[  1.00000000e+00,   1.00000000e+00],
       [  2.00000000e+00,   2.00000000e+00],
       [  3.91115939e-16,   3.91115939e-16],
       [ -2.99676984e-17,  -2.99676984e-17]])

Fitters support constraint fitting through `~astropy.modeling.constraints.Constraints`.

- All fitters support fixed (frozen) parameters through the `fixed`
  argument to models or setting the `~astropy.modeling.parameters.Parameter.fixed`
  attribute directly on a parameter.

For linear fitters freezing a polynomial coefficient means that a
polynomial without that term will be fitted to the data. For example, fixing
c0 in a polynomial model will fit a polynomial with the zero-th order term missing.
However, the fixed value of the coefficient is used when evaluating the model.

>>> x = np.arange(1, 10, .1)
>>> p1 = models.Poly1DModel(2, param_dim=2)
>>> p1.parameters = [1, 1, 2, 2, 3, 3]
>>> p1.param_sets
array([[ 1.,  1.],
       [ 2.,  2.],
       [ 3.,  3.]])
>>> y = p1(x)
>>> p1.c1.fixed = True
>>> pfit = fitting.LinearLSQFitter(p1)
>>> pfit(x, y)
>>> p1.param_sets
array([[ 5.50225913,  5.50225913],
       [ 2.        ,  2.        ],
       [ 3.17551299,  3.17551299]])


- A parameter can be `~astropy.modeling.parameters.Parameter.tied`
  (linked to another parameter). This can be done in two ways:

>>> def tiedfunc(g1):
    ...    mean = 3 * g1.stddev[0]
    ...    return mean
>>> g1 = models.Gaussian1DModel(amplitude=10., mean=3, stddev=.5, tied={'mean': tiedfunc})

or

>>> g1 = models.Gaussian1DModel(amplitude=10., mean=3, stddev=.5)
>>> g1.mean.tied = tiedfunc
>>> gfit = fitting.NonLinearLSQFitter(g1)


- Print a list of available fitting constraints

>>> fitting.constraintsdef
{'LinearLSQFitter': ['fixed'],
 'NonLinearLSQFitter': ['fixed', 'tied', 'bounds'],
 'SLSQPFitter': ['bounds', 'eqcons', 'ineqcons', 'fixed', 'tied']}
