docs/modeling/new.rst, before:

****************************
Defining a New Type of Model
****************************

This document describes how to add a model to the package or to define a
user model. In short, one needs to define all model parameters and write
an eval function which evaluates the model. If the model is fittable,
a function to compute the derivatives is required if linear fitting
algorithm is to be used and optional if a non-liner fitter is to be used.

A Step by Step Definition of a 1D Gaussian Model
------------------------------------------------

The details are explained below with a 1D gaussian model as an example.
There are two base classes for models. If the model is fittable, it 
should inherit from `~astropy.modeling.core.ParametricModel`,
if not it should subclass `~astropy.modeling.core.Model`. If the model
takes parameters, their names are stored in a list as a class attribute
named `~astropy.modeling.core.Model.param_names`. Pass the list of parameter
names and the number of parameter sets to the base class. Note, that if
the method which evaluates the model cannot work with multiple parameter sets,
`~astropy.modeling.core.Model.param_dim` should not be given
as an argument in the __init__ method. The default for
`~astropy.modeling.core.Model.param_dim` is set in the base class to 1.::

    from astropy.modeling import *
    
    class Gaussian1DModel(ParametricModel):
        param_names = ['amplitude', 'mean', 'stddev']


As a minimum the __init__ method takes all parameters and the number of
parameter sets, `~astropy.modeling.Model.param_dim`::

    def __init__(self, amplitude, mean, stddev, param_dim=1):
        self.linear = False
        self._amplitude = Parameter(name='amplitude', val=amplitude, mclass=self, param_dim=param_dim)
        self._stddev = Parameter(name='stddev', val=stddev, mclass=self, param_dim=param_dim)
        self._mean = Parameter(name='mean', val=mean, mclass=self, param_dim=param_dim)
        ParametricModel.__init__(self, self.param_names, n_inputs=1, n_outputs=1, param_dim=param_dim)
    
Parametric models can be linear or nonlinear in a regression sense. The default 
value of the `~astropy.modeling.core.Model.linear` attribute is True. 
The `~astropy.modeling.core.Model.n_inputs` attribute stores the number of input
variables the model expects.. The `~astropy.modeling.core.Model.n_outputs` attribute
stores the number of output variables returned after evaluating the model.
These two attributes are used with composite models.
Each parameter must be defined as a private attribute of the model class. 
Parameters are instances of `~astropy.modeling.parameters.Parameter` class which takes as
arguments the name of the parameter, its value, the instance of the class 
and the number of parameter sets.

Next, provide a method, called "eval" to evaluate the model and a method,
called "deriv",  to compute its derivatives. The evaluation method takes all
input coordinates as separate arguments and a parameter set. For this example::

    def eval(self, x, params):
        return params[0] * np.exp((-(1/(params[2]**2)) * (x-params[1])**2))
                                                

The "deriv" method takes as input all coordinates as separate arguments.
There is an option to compute numerical derivatives for nonlinear models
in which case the "deriv" method should return None.

Finally, the __call__ method takes input coordinates as separate arguments.
It reformats them (if necessary) and calls the eval method to perform the 
model evaluation using model.param_sets as parameters. 
The reason there is a separate eval method is to allow fitters to call the eval
method with different parameters which is necessary for fitting with constraints.::

    def __call__(self, x):
        x, format = _convert_input(x, self.param_dim)
        result = self.eval(x, self.param_sets)
        return _convert_output(result, format)
    
A Full Example of a LineModel
-----------------------------

::

    from astropy.modeling import models, parameters
    import numpy as np
    
    class Line(models.PolynomialModel):
        param_names = ['slope', 'intercept']
    
    def init(self, slope, intercept, param_dim=1):
        self.linear = True 
        self._slope = parameters.Parameter(name='slope', val=slope, mclass=self, param_dim=param_dim)
        self._intercept = parameters.Parameter(name='intercept', val=intercept, mclass=self, param_dim=param_dim)
        models.ParametricModel.__init__(self, self.param_names, n_inputs=1, n_outputs=1, param_dim=param_dim)
        self.domain = [-1, 1]
        self.window = [-1, 1]
        self._order = 2
    
    def eval(self, x, params):
        return params[0] * x + params[1]
    
    def call(self, x):
        x, format = models._convert_input(x, self.param_dim)
        result = self.eval(x, self.param_sets)
        return models._convert_output(result, format)
    
    def deriv(self, x):
        res = np.ones((len(x), 2))
        res[:, 1] = x.copy()
        return res

*****************************
Creating a New Type of Fitter
*****************************

This document describes how to add a new nonlinear fitting algorithm
to this package. In short, one needs to define an error function and a __call__
method and define the types of constraints which work with this fitter (if any).

The details are described below using scipy's SLSQP algorithm as an example.
The base class for all fitters is `~astropy.modeling.fitting.Fitter`.::

    class SLSQPFitter(Fitter):
        def __init__(self, model, fixed=None, tied=None, bounds=None,
                            eqcons=None, ineqcons=None):
            Fitter.__init__(self, model, fixed=fixed, tied=tied, bounds=bounds, 
                                      eqcons=eqcons, ineqcons=ineqcons)
            if self.model.linear:
                raise ModelLinearityException('Model is linear in parameters, '
                             'non-linear fitting methods should not be used.')

All fitters take a model (their __call__ method modifies the model's parameters).
If the fitter does not support constraint fitting, this may be the only argument 
passed to the constructor. In our example the rest of the arguments represent 
different types of constraints.

Next, the error function takes a list of parameters returned by an iteration of the 
fitting algorithm and input coordinates, evaluates the model with them and 
returns some type of a measure for the fit. In the example the sum of the 
squared residuals is used as a measure of fitting.::

    def errorfunc(self, fps, *args):
        meas = args[0]
        self.fitpars = fps
        res = self.model(*args[1:]) - meas
        return np.sum(res**2)
    
The __call__ method performs the fitting. As a minimum it takes all coordinates 
as separate arguments. Additional arguments are passed as necessary.::

    def __call__(self, x, y , maxiter=MAXITER, epsilon=EPS):
        self.fitpars = optimize.fmin_slsqp(self.errorfunc, p0=self.model.parameters[:], args=(y, x), 
            bounds=self.constraints._bounds, eqcons=self.constraints.eqcons, 
            ieqcons=self.constraints.ineqcons)

Commit message:

Small documentation fixes for astropy/modeling tiny docfix: order matters for self.linear  * a few more tiny doc tweaks  * 1/2 -> 1/2.  * rename "y" to "dummy" in gderiv  * deriv method should be, not should return, None  * added more docs about deriv method  * linear after super.__init__  * use super when __init__'ing

docs/modeling/new.rst, after:

****************************
Defining a New Type of Model
****************************

This document describes how to add a model to the package or to define a
user model. In short, one needs to define all model parameters and write
an eval function which evaluates the model. If the model is fittable,
a function to compute the derivatives is required if linear fitting
algorithm is to be used and optional if a non-liner fitter is to be used.

A Step by Step Definition of a 1D Gaussian Model
------------------------------------------------

The details are explained below with a 1D gaussian model as an example.
There are two base classes for models. If the model is fittable, it 
should inherit from `~astropy.modeling.core.ParametricModel`,
if not it should subclass `~astropy.modeling.core.Model`. If the model
takes parameters, their names are stored in a list as a class attribute
named `~astropy.modeling.core.Model.param_names`. Pass the list of parameter
names and the number of parameter sets to the base class. Note, that if
the method which evaluates the model cannot work with multiple parameter sets,
`~astropy.modeling.core.Model.param_dim` should not be given
as an argument in the ``__init__`` method. The default for
`~astropy.modeling.core.Model.param_dim` is set in the base class to 1.::

    from astropy.modeling import *
    
    class Gaussian1DModel(ParametricModel):
        param_names = ['amplitude', 'mean', 'stddev']


As a minimum the __init__ method takes all parameters and the number of
parameter sets, `~astropy.modeling.Model.param_dim`::

    def __init__(self, amplitude, mean, stddev, param_dim=1):
        self._amplitude = Parameter(name='amplitude', val=amplitude, mclass=self, param_dim=param_dim)
        self._stddev = Parameter(name='stddev', val=stddev, mclass=self, param_dim=param_dim)
        self._mean = Parameter(name='mean', val=mean, mclass=self, param_dim=param_dim)
        super(ParametricModel,self).__init__(self, self.param_names,
            n_inputs=1, n_outputs=1, param_dim=param_dim)
        self.linear = False
    
Parametric models can be linear or nonlinear in a regression sense. The default 
value of the `~astropy.modeling.core.Model.linear` attribute is True. 
The `~astropy.modeling.core.Model.n_inputs` attribute stores the number of input
variables the model expects.. The `~astropy.modeling.core.Model.n_outputs` attribute
stores the number of output variables returned after evaluating the model.
These two attributes are used with composite models.
Each parameter must be defined as a private attribute of the model class. 
Parameters are instances of `~astropy.modeling.parameters.Parameter` class which takes as
arguments the name of the parameter, its value, the instance of the class 
and the number of parameter sets.

Next, provide a method, called "eval" to evaluate the model and a method,
called "deriv",  to compute its derivatives. The evaluation method takes all
input coordinates as separate arguments and a parameter set. For this example::

    def eval(self, x, params):
        return params[0] * np.exp((-(1/(2.*params[2]**2)) * (x-params[1])**2))
                                                

The "deriv" method takes as input all coordinates as separate arguments.
There is an option to compute numerical derivatives for nonlinear models
in which case the "deriv" method should be ``None``.  The "deriv" method
must also accept a dummy variable for compatibility with `scipy.optimize`::

    def gderiv(self, p, x, dummy):
        amplitude, mean, stddev = p
        deriv_dict = {}
        deriv_dict['amplitude'] = np.exp((-(1/(stddev**2)) * (x-mean)**2))
        deriv_dict['mean'] = 2 * amplitude * np.exp((-(1/(stddev**2)) *
                                (x-mean)**2)) * (x-mean)/(stddev**2)
        deriv_dict['stddev'] = 2 * amplitude * np.exp((-(1/(stddev**2)) *
                                (x-mean)**2)) * ((x-mean)**2)/(stddev**3)
        derivval = [deriv_dict[par] for par in self.param_names]
        return np.array(derivval).T


Finally, the ``__call__`` method takes input coordinates as separate arguments.
It reformats them (if necessary) and calls the eval method to perform the 
model evaluation using model.param_sets as parameters. 
The reason there is a separate eval method is to allow fitters to call the eval
method with different parameters which is necessary for fitting with constraints.::

    def __call__(self, x):
        x, format = _convert_input(x, self.param_dim)
        result = self.eval(x, self.param_sets)
        return _convert_output(result, format)
    
A Full Example of a LineModel
-----------------------------

::

    from astropy.modeling import models, parameters
    import numpy as np
    
    class Line(models.PolynomialModel):
        param_names = ['slope', 'intercept']
    
    def init(self, slope, intercept, param_dim=1):
        self._slope = parameters.Parameter(name='slope', val=slope, mclass=self, param_dim=param_dim)
        self._intercept = parameters.Parameter(name='intercept', val=intercept, mclass=self, param_dim=param_dim)
        super(models.ParametricModel,self).__init__(self, self.param_names, n_inputs=1, n_outputs=1, param_dim=param_dim)
        self.linear = True 
        self.domain = [-1, 1]
        self.window = [-1, 1]
        self._order = 2
    
    def eval(self, x, params):
        return params[0] * x + params[1]
    
    def call(self, x):
        x, format = models._convert_input(x, self.param_dim)
        result = self.eval(x, self.param_sets)
        return models._convert_output(result, format)
    
    def deriv(self, x):
        res = np.ones((len(x), 2))
        res[:, 1] = x.copy()
        return res

*****************************
Creating a New Type of Fitter
*****************************

This document describes how to add a new nonlinear fitting algorithm
to this package. In short, one needs to define an error function and a ``__call__``
method and define the types of constraints which work with this fitter (if any).

The details are described below using scipy's SLSQP algorithm as an example.
The base class for all fitters is `~astropy.modeling.fitting.Fitter`.::

    class SLSQPFitter(Fitter):
        def __init__(self, model, fixed=None, tied=None, bounds=None,
                            eqcons=None, ineqcons=None):
            super(Fitter,self).__init__(self, model, fixed=fixed, tied=tied, bounds=bounds, 
                                      eqcons=eqcons, ineqcons=ineqcons)
            if self.model.linear:
                raise ModelLinearityException('Model is linear in parameters, '
                             'non-linear fitting methods should not be used.')

All fitters take a model (their ``__call__`` method modifies the model's parameters).
If the fitter does not support constraint fitting, this may be the only argument 
passed to the constructor. In our example the rest of the arguments represent 
different types of constraints.

Next, the error function takes a list of parameters returned by an iteration of the 
fitting algorithm and input coordinates, evaluates the model with them and 
returns some type of a measure for the fit. In the example the sum of the 
squared residuals is used as a measure of fitting.::

    def errorfunc(self, fps, *args):
        meas = args[0]
        self.fitpars = fps
        res = self.model(*args[1:]) - meas
        return np.sum(res**2)
    
The ``__call__`` method performs the fitting. As a minimum it takes all coordinates 
as separate arguments. Additional arguments are passed as necessary.::

    def __call__(self, x, y , maxiter=MAXITER, epsilon=EPS):
        self.fitpars = optimize.fmin_slsqp(self.errorfunc, p0=self.model.parameters[:], args=(y, x), 
            bounds=self.constraints._bounds, eqcons=self.constraints.eqcons, 
            ieqcons=self.constraints.ineqcons)
