docs/vo/client.rst, before:

Using ``astropy.vo.client``
===========================

This subpackage contains modules supporting VO client-side operations.


.. _vo-sec-client-vos:

General VO Services Access
--------------------------

`astropy.vo.client.vos_catalog` contains common utilities for accessing
simple VO services.

.. _vo-sec-vos-config:

Configurable Items
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

These parameters are set via :ref:`astropy_config`:

    * ``astropy.io.votable.table.PEDANTIC``
    * ``astropy.utils.data.REMOTE_TIMEOUT``
    * ``astropy.vo.client.vos_catalog.BASEURL``

Examples
^^^^^^^^

>>> from astropy.vo.client import vos_catalog

Get all catalogs from a database named 'conesearch_good' (this contains
Cone Search services that cleanly passed daily validations;
also see :ref:`Cone Search Examples <vo-sec-scs-examples>`):

>>> my_db = vos_catalog.get_remote_catalog_db('conesearch_good')
Downloading http://stsdas.stsci.edu/astrolib/vo_databases/conesearch_good.json
|============================================|  56/ 56k (100.00%)        00s
>>> my_db
<astropy.vo.client.vos_catalog.VOSDatabase at 0x2b0f3d0>
>>> print(str(my_db))
Guide Star Catalog 2.3 1
SDSS DR7 - Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release 7 1
SDSS DR7 - Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release 7 2
# ...
USNO-A2 Catalogue 1
USNO-A2.0 1

If you get timeout error, you need to use a custom timeout as follows:

>>> from astropy.utils.data import REMOTE_TIMEOUT
>>> with REMOTE_TIMEOUT.set_temp(30):
...     my_db = vos_catalog.get_remote_catalog_db('conesearch_good')

Find catalog names containing 'usno*a2':

>>> my_db.list_catalogs(pattern='usno*a2')
[u'The USNO-A2.0 Catalogue (Monet+ 1998) 1', u'USNO-A2 Catalogue 1']

Get information for a catalog titled 'USNO-A2 Catalogue 1':

>>> my_cat = my_db.get_catalog('USNO-A2 Catalogue 1')
>>> my_cat
<astropy.vo.client.vos_catalog.VOSCatalog at 0x1f78150>
>>> print(str(my_cat))
title: USNO-A2 Catalogue
url: http://www.nofs.navy.mil/cgi-bin/vo_cone.cgi?CAT=USNO-A2&
>>> print(my_cat.dumps())
{
    "capabilityClass": "ConeSearch", 
    "capabilityStandardID": "ivo://ivoa.net/std/ConeSearch", 
    "capabilityValidationLevel": "", 
    "contentLevel": "#University#Research#Amateur#", 
    # ...
    "version": "", 
    "waveband": "#Optical#"
}
>>> my_cat.keys()
[u'validate_network_error',
 u'capabilityClass',
 u'updated',
 # ...
 u'identifier',
 u'validate_xmllint']
>>> my_cat['url']
u'http://www.nofs.navy.mil/cgi-bin/vo_cone.cgi?CAT=USNO-A2&'
>>> my_cat['maxRadius']
1.0

One can also get information for a catalog using its URL.
If a URL yields multiple catalogs (this can happen when the service provider
re-register the URL with a different title), only the first match is returned:

>>> my_cat2 = my_db.get_catalog_by_url(
...     'http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/votable/-A?-source=I/255/out&')
>>> print(my_cat2.dumps())
{
    "capabilityClass": "ConeSearch", 
    "capabilityStandardID": "ivo://ivoa.net/std/ConeSearch", 
    "capabilityValidationLevel": "", 
    "contentLevel": "#Research#", 
    # ...
    "version": "15-Sep-1999", 
    "waveband": "#Optical#"
}

To see validation warnings generated by :ref:`vo-sec-validator-validate`
for the catalog above:

>>> for w in my_cat2['validate_warnings']:
...     print(w)
/.../vo.xml:13:0: W22: The DEFINITIONS element is deprecated in VOTable 1.1...

To get all the matching catalogs by URL:

>>> matched_cats = [cat for key, cat in my_db.get_catalogs_by_url(
...     'http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/votable/-A?-source=I/255/out&')]
>>> for c in matched_cats:
...     print(str(c))
title: The HST Guide Star Catalog, Version GSC-ACT (Lasker+ 1996-99)
url: http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/votable/-A?-source=I/255/out&

To get all catalogs in the database:

>>> all_cats = [cat for key, cat in my_db.get_catalogs()]

By default, pedantic is `False`:

>>> from astropy.io.votable.table import PEDANTIC
>>> PEDANTIC()
False

To call a given VO service; In this case, a Cone Search
(also see :ref:`Cone Search Examples <vo-sec-scs-examples>`):

>>> result = vos_catalog.call_vo_service(
...     'conesearch_good', kwargs={'RA':6.088, 'DEC':-72.086, 'SR':0.5})
Trying http://wfaudata.roe.ac.uk/sdssdr7-dsa/DirectCone?DSACAT=SDSS_DR7&...
WARNING: W25: ... failed with: timed out [...]
# ...
Trying http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/votable/-A?-source=I/243/out&
Downloading ... [Done]
WARNING: W22: ... The DEFINITIONS element is deprecated in VOTable 1.1...
>>> result
<astropy.io.votable.tree.Table at 0x6311f50>

To repeat the above and suppress *all* the screen outputs (not recommended):

>>> import warnings
>>> with warnings.catch_warnings():
...     warnings.simplefilter('ignore')
...     result = vos_catalog.call_vo_service(
...         'conesearch_good', kwargs={'RA':6.088, 'DEC':-72.086, 'SR':0.5},
...         verbose=False)


.. _vo-sec-client-scs:

Simple Cone Search
------------------

`astropy.vo.client.conesearch` supports VO Simple Cone Search capabilities.

Available databases are generated on the server-side hosted by STScI using
:ref:`vo-sec-validator-validate`. The database used is controlled by
``astropy.vo.client.conesearch.CONESEARCH_DBNAME``, which can be changed
in :ref:`vo-sec-scs-config` below. Here are the available options:

    #. 'conesearch_good'
           Default. Passed validation without critical warnings and exceptions.
    #. 'conesearch_warn'
           Has critical warnings but no exceptions. Use at your own risk.
    #. 'conesearch_exception'
           Has some exceptions. *Never* use this.
    #. 'conesearch_error'
           Has network connection error. *Never* use this.

In the default setting, it searches the good Cone Search services one by one,
stops at the first one that gives non-zero match(es), and returns the result.
Since the list of services are extracted from a Python dictionary, the search
order might differ from call to call. :ref:`vo-sec-scs-examples` below show
how to use non-default search behaviors, where the user has more control of
which catalog(s) to search.

.. note::

    Most services currently fail to parse when ``pedantic=True``.

.. warning::

    When Cone Search returns warnings, user should decide
    whether the results are reliable by inspecting the
    warning codes in `astropy.io.votable.exceptions`.

.. _vo-sec-scs-config:

Configurable Items
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

These parameters are set via :ref:`astropy_config`:

    * ``astropy.utils.data.REMOTE_TIMEOUT``
    * ``astropy.vo.client.conesearch.CONESEARCH_DBNAME``
    * Also depends on
      :ref:`General VO Services Access Configurable Items <vo-sec-vos-config>`

.. _vo-sec-scs-examples:

Examples
^^^^^^^^

>>> from astropy.vo.client import conesearch

Shows a sorted list of Cone Search services to be searched
(to inspect them in detail, see :ref:`vo-sec-client-vos`):

>>> conesearch.list_catalogs()
[u'Guide Star Catalog 2.3 1',
 u'SDSS DR7 - Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release 7 1',
 u'SDSS DR7 - Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release 7 2',
 u'SDSS DR7 - Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release 7 3',
 u'SDSS DR7 - Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release 7 4',
 u'SDSS DR8 - Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release 8 1',
 u'SDSS DR8 - Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release 8 2',
 u'The HST Guide Star Catalog, Version 1.1 (Lasker+ 1992) 1',
 u'The HST Guide Star Catalog, Version 1.2 (Lasker+ 1996) 1',
 u'The HST Guide Star Catalog, Version GSC-ACT (Lasker+ 1996-99) 1',
 u'The PMM USNO-A1.0 Catalogue (Monet 1997) 1',
 u'The USNO-A2.0 Catalogue (Monet+ 1998) 1',
 u'Two Micron All Sky Survey (2MASS) 1',
 u'Two Micron All Sky Survey (2MASS) 2',
 u'USNO-A2 Catalogue 1',
 u'USNO-A2.0 1']

Select a catalog to search:

>>> my_catname = 'The PMM USNO-A1.0 Catalogue (Monet 1997) 1'

By default, pedantic is `False`:

>>> from astropy.io.votable.table import PEDANTIC
>>> PEDANTIC()
False

Perform Cone Search in the selected catalog above for 0.5 degree radius
around 47 Tucanae with minimum verbosity, if supported.
The ``catalog_db`` keyword gives control over which catalog(s) to use.
If running this for the first time, a copy of the catalogs database will be
downloaded to local cache. To run this again without
using cached data, set ``cache=False``:

>>> from astropy import coordinates as coord
>>> c = coord.ICRSCoordinates.from_name('47 Tuc')
>>> c
<ICRSCoordinates RA=6.02233 deg, Dec=-72.08144 deg>
>>> result = conesearch.conesearch(
...     c.ra.degrees, c.dec.degrees, 0.5, catalog_db=my_catname)
Trying http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/votable/-A?-source=I/243/out&
Downloading ...
WARNING: W22: ... The DEFINITIONS element is deprecated in VOTable 1.1...

To run the command above using custom timeout of
30 seconds for each Cone Search service query:

>>> from astropy.utils.data import REMOTE_TIMEOUT
>>> with REMOTE_TIMEOUT.set_temp(30):
...     result = conesearch.conesearch(
...         c.ra.degrees, c.dec.degrees, 0.5, catalog_db=my_catname)

To suppress *all* the screen outputs (not recommended):

>>> import warnings
>>> with warnings.catch_warnings():
...     warnings.simplefilter('ignore')
...     result = conesearch.conesearch(
...         c.ra.degrees, c.dec.degrees, 0.5, catalog_db=my_catname,
...         verbose=False)

Extract Numpy array containing the matched objects. See
`numpy` for available operations:

>>> cone_arr = result.array.data
>>> cone_arr
array([(0.499298, 4.403473, -72.124045, '0150-00088188'),
       (0.499075, 4.403906, -72.122762, '0150-00088198'),
       (0.499528, 4.404531, -72.045198, '0150-00088210'), ...,
       (0.4988, 7.641731, -72.113156, '0150-00225965'),
       (0.499554, 7.645489, -72.103167, '0150-00226134'),
       (0.499917, 7.6474, -72.0876, '0150-00226223')], 
      dtype=[('_r', '<f8'), ('_RAJ2000', '<f8'), ('_DEJ2000', '<f8'),
             ('USNO-A1.0', '|S13')])
>>> cone_arr.dtype.names
('_r', '_RAJ2000', '_DEJ2000', 'USNO-A1.0')
>>> cone_arr.size
36184
>>> ra_list = cone_arr['_RAJ2000']
>>> ra_list
array([ 4.403473,  4.403906,  4.404531, ...,  7.641731,  7.645489,  7.6474  ])
>>> cone_arr[0]  # First row
(0.499298, 4.403473, -72.124045, '0150-00088188')
>>> cone_arr[-1]  # Last row
(0.499917, 7.6474, -72.0876, '0150-00226223')
>>> cone_arr[:10]  # First 10 rows
array([(0.499298, 4.403473, -72.124045, '0150-00088188'),
       (0.499075, 4.403906, -72.122762, '0150-00088198'),
       (0.499528, 4.404531, -72.045198, '0150-00088210'),
       (0.497252, 4.406078, -72.095045, '0150-00088245'),
       (0.499739, 4.406462, -72.139545, '0150-00088254'),
       (0.496312, 4.410623, -72.110492, '0150-00088372'),
       (0.49473, 4.415053, -72.071217, '0150-00088494'),
       (0.494171, 4.415939, -72.087512, '0150-00088517'),
       (0.493722, 4.417678, -72.0972, '0150-00088572'),
       (0.495147, 4.418262, -72.047142, '0150-00088595')],
      dtype=[('_r', '<f8'), ('_RAJ2000', '<f8'), ('_DEJ2000', '<f8'),
             ('USNO-A1.0', '|S13')])

Sort the matched objects by angular separation in ascending order:

>>> import numpy as np
>>> sep = cone_arr['_r']
>>> i_sorted = np.argsort(sep)
>>> cone_arr[i_sorted]
array([(0.081971, 5.917787, -72.006075, '0150-00145335'),
       (0.083181, 6.020339, -72.164623, '0150-00149799'),
       (0.089166, 5.732798, -72.077698, '0150-00137181'), ...,
       (0.499981, 7.024962, -72.477503, '0150-00198745'),
       (0.499987, 6.423773, -71.597364, '0150-00168596'),
       (0.499989, 6.899589, -72.5043, '0150-00192872')], 
      dtype=[('_r', '<f8'), ('_RAJ2000', '<f8'), ('_DEJ2000', '<f8'),
             ('USNO-A1.0', '|S13')])

Result can also be manipulated as :ref:`astropy-io-votable`
and its unit can be manipulated as :ref:`astropy-units`.
In this example, we convert RA values from degree to arcsec:

>>> from astropy import units as u
>>> ra_field = result.get_field_by_id('_RAJ2000')
>>> ra_field.title
u'Right ascension (FK5, Equinox=J2000.0) (computed by VizieR, ...)'
>>> ra_field.unit
Unit("deg")
>>> ra_field.unit.to(u.arcsec) * ra_list
array([ 15852.5028,  15854.0616,  15856.3116, ...,  27510.2316,
        27523.7604,  27530.64  ])

Perform the same Cone Search as above but asynchronously using
`~astropy.vo.client.conesearch.AsyncConeSearch`.
Queries to individual Cone Search services are still governed by
``astropy.utils.data.REMOTE_TIMEOUT``. Cone Search is forced
to run in silent mode asynchronously, but warnings are still
controlled by :py:mod:`warnings`:

>>> async_search = conesearch.AsyncConeSearch(
...     c.ra.degrees, c.dec.degrees, 0.5, catalog_db=my_catname)

Check asynchronous search status:

>>> async_search.running()
True
>>> async_search.done()
False

Get search results after a 30-second wait (not to be
confused with ``astropy.utils.data.REMOTE_TIMEOUT`` that
governs individual Cone Search queries). If search is still not
done after 30 seconds, ``TimeoutError`` is raised. Otherwise,
Cone Search result is returned and can be manipulated as
above. If no ``timeout`` keyword given, it waits until
completion:

>>> async_result = async_search.get(timeout=30)
>>> cone_arr = async_result.array.data
>>> cone_arr.size
36184

Estimate the execution time and the number of objects for
the Cone Search service URL from above. The prediction naively
assumes a linear model, which might not be accurate for some cases.
It also uses the normal :func:`~astropy.vo.client.conesearch.conesearch`,
not the asynchronous version. This example uses a custom
timeout of 30 seconds and runs silently (except for warnings):

>>> result.url
u'http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/votable/-A?-source=I/243/out&'
>>> with REMOTE_TIMEOUT.set_temp(30):
...     t_est, n_est = conesearch.predict_search(
...         result.url, c.ra.degrees, c.dec.degrees, 0.5,
...         verbose=False, plot=True)
WARNING: W22: ... The DEFINITIONS element is deprecated in VOTable 1.1...
# ...
>>> t_est  # Predicted execution time
19.272144977377838
>>> n_est  # Predicted number of objects
37340

.. image:: images/client_predict_search_t.png
    :width: 450px
    :alt: Example plot from conesearch.predict_search() for t_est

.. image:: images/client_predict_search_n.png
    :width: 450px
    :alt: Example plot from conesearch.predict_search() for n_est

For debugging purpose, one can obtain the actual execution time
and number of objects, and compare them with the predicted values
above. The INFO message shown in controlled by `astropy.logger`.
Keep in mind that running this for every prediction
would defeat the purpose of the prediction itself:

>>> t_real, tab = conesearch.conesearch_timer(
...     c.ra.degrees, c.dec.degrees, 0.5, catalog_db=result.url, verbose=False)
INFO: conesearch_timer took 11.5103080273 s on AVERAGE for 1 call(s). [...]
>>> t_real  # Actual execution time
11.510308027267456
>>> tab.array.size  # Actual number of objects
36184

One can also search in a list of catalogs instead of a single one.
In this example, we look for all catalogs containing 'guide*star' in their
titles and only perform Cone Search using those services.
The first catalog in the list to successfully return non-zero result is used.
Therefore, the order of catalog names given in ``catalog_db`` is important:

>>> gsc_cats = conesearch.list_catalogs(pattern='guide*star')
>>> gsc_cats
[u'Guide Star Catalog 2.3 1',
 u'The HST Guide Star Catalog, Version 1.1 (Lasker+ 1992) 1',
 u'The HST Guide Star Catalog, Version 1.2 (Lasker+ 1996) 1',
 u'The HST Guide Star Catalog, Version GSC-ACT (Lasker+ 1996-99) 1']
>>> gsc_result = conesearch.conesearch(
...     c.ra.degrees, c.dec.degrees, 0.5, catalog_db=gsc_cats)
Trying http://gsss.stsci.edu/webservices/vo/ConeSearch.aspx?CAT=GSC23&
WARNING: W25: ... failed with: timed out [...]
Trying http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/votable/-A?-source=I/220/out&
Downloading ...
WARNING: W22: ... The DEFINITIONS element is deprecated in VOTable 1.1...
>>> gsc_result.array.size
2997
>>> gsc_result.url
u'http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/votable/-A?-source=I/220/out&'

To repeat the Cone Search above with the services listed in a
different order:

>>> gsc_cats_reordered = [gsc_cats[i] for i in (3, 1, 2, 0)]
>>> gsc_cats_reordered
[u'The HST Guide Star Catalog, Version GSC-ACT (Lasker+ 1996-99) 1',
 u'The HST Guide Star Catalog, Version 1.1 (Lasker+ 1992) 1',
 u'The HST Guide Star Catalog, Version 1.2 (Lasker+ 1996) 1',
 u'Guide Star Catalog 2.3 1']
>>> gsc_result = conesearch.conesearch(
...     c.ra.degrees, c.dec.degrees, 0.5, catalog_db=gsc_cats_reordered)
Trying http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/votable/-A?-source=I/255/out&
Downloading ...
WARNING: W22: ... The DEFINITIONS element is deprecated in VOTable 1.1...
>>> gsc_result.array.size
2997
>>> gsc_result.url
u'http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/votable/-A?-source=I/255/out&'

If one is unable to obtain any results using the default
Cone Search database, 'conesearch_good.json', that only contains
sites that cleanly passed validation, one can use :ref:`astropy_config`
to use another database, 'conesearch_warn.json', containing sites with
validation warnings. One should use these sites with caution:

>>> conesearch.CONESEARCH_DBNAME.set('conesearch_warn')
>>> conesearch.list_catalogs()
Downloading http://stsdas.stsci.edu/astrolib/vo_databases/conesearch_warn.json
|===========================================|  87k/ 87k (100.00%)        00s
[u'2MASS All-Sky Catalog of Point Sources (Cutri+ 2003) 1',
 u'2MASS All-Sky Point Source Catalog 1',
 u'Data release 7 of Sloan Digital Sky Survey catalogs 1',
 u'Data release 7 of Sloan Digital Sky Survey catalogs 2',
 u'Data release 7 of Sloan Digital Sky Survey catalogs 3',
 u'Data release 7 of Sloan Digital Sky Survey catalogs 4',
 u'Data release 7 of Sloan Digital Sky Survey catalogs 5',
 u'Data release 7 of Sloan Digital Sky Survey catalogs 6',
 u'The 2MASS All-Sky Catalog 1',
 u'The 2MASS All-Sky Catalog 2',
 u'The USNO-B1.0 Catalog (Monet+ 2003) 1',
 u'The USNO-B1.0 Catalog 1',
 u'USNO-A V2.0, A Catalog of Astrometric Standards 1',
 u'USNO-B1 Catalogue 1']

Commit message:

Minor doc corrections from proof reading

docs/vo/client.rst, after:

Using ``astropy.vo.client``
===========================

This subpackage contains modules supporting VO client-side operations.


.. _vo-sec-client-vos:

General VO Services Access
--------------------------

`astropy.vo.client.vos_catalog` contains common utilities for accessing
simple VO services.

.. _vo-sec-vos-config:

Configurable Items
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

These parameters are set via :ref:`astropy_config`:

    * ``astropy.io.votable.table.PEDANTIC``
    * ``astropy.utils.data.REMOTE_TIMEOUT``
    * ``astropy.vo.client.vos_catalog.BASEURL``

Examples
^^^^^^^^

>>> from astropy.vo.client import vos_catalog

Get all catalogs from a database named 'conesearch_good' (this contains
Cone Search services that cleanly passed daily validations;
also see :ref:`Cone Search Examples <vo-sec-scs-examples>`):

>>> my_db = vos_catalog.get_remote_catalog_db('conesearch_good')
Downloading http://stsdas.stsci.edu/astrolib/vo_databases/conesearch_good.json
|============================================|  56/ 56k (100.00%)        00s
>>> my_db
<astropy.vo.client.vos_catalog.VOSDatabase at 0x2b0f3d0>
>>> print(str(my_db))
Guide Star Catalog 2.3 1
SDSS DR7 - Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release 7 1
SDSS DR7 - Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release 7 2
# ...
USNO-A2 Catalogue 1
USNO-A2.0 1

If you get timeout error, you need to use a custom timeout as follows:

>>> from astropy.utils.data import REMOTE_TIMEOUT
>>> with REMOTE_TIMEOUT.set_temp(30):
...     my_db = vos_catalog.get_remote_catalog_db('conesearch_good')

Find catalog names containing 'usno*a2':

>>> my_db.list_catalogs(pattern='usno*a2')
[u'The USNO-A2.0 Catalogue (Monet+ 1998) 1', u'USNO-A2 Catalogue 1']

Get information for a catalog titled 'USNO-A2 Catalogue 1':

>>> my_cat = my_db.get_catalog('USNO-A2 Catalogue 1')
>>> my_cat
<astropy.vo.client.vos_catalog.VOSCatalog at 0x1f78150>
>>> print(str(my_cat))
title: USNO-A2 Catalogue
url: http://www.nofs.navy.mil/cgi-bin/vo_cone.cgi?CAT=USNO-A2&
>>> print(my_cat.dumps())
{
    "capabilityClass": "ConeSearch", 
    "capabilityStandardID": "ivo://ivoa.net/std/ConeSearch", 
    "capabilityValidationLevel": "", 
    "contentLevel": "#University#Research#Amateur#", 
    # ...
    "version": "", 
    "waveband": "#Optical#"
}
>>> my_cat.keys()
[u'validate_network_error',
 u'capabilityClass',
 u'updated',
 # ...
 u'identifier',
 u'validate_xmllint']
>>> my_cat['url']
u'http://www.nofs.navy.mil/cgi-bin/vo_cone.cgi?CAT=USNO-A2&'
>>> my_cat['maxRadius']
1.0

One can also get information for a catalog using its URL.
If a URL yields multiple catalogs (this can happen when the service provider
re-register the URL with a different title), only the first match is returned:

>>> my_cat2 = my_db.get_catalog_by_url(
...     'http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/votable/-A?-source=I/255/out&')
>>> print(my_cat2.dumps())
{
    "capabilityClass": "ConeSearch", 
    "capabilityStandardID": "ivo://ivoa.net/std/ConeSearch", 
    "capabilityValidationLevel": "", 
    "contentLevel": "#Research#", 
    # ...
    "version": "15-Sep-1999", 
    "waveband": "#Optical#"
}

To see validation warnings generated by :ref:`vo-sec-validator-validate`
for the catalog above:

>>> for w in my_cat2['validate_warnings']:
...     print(w)
/.../vo.xml:13:0: W22: The DEFINITIONS element is deprecated in VOTable 1.1...

To get all the matching catalogs by URL:

>>> matched_cats = [cat for key, cat in my_db.get_catalogs_by_url(
...     'http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/votable/-A?-source=I/255/out&')]
>>> for c in matched_cats:
...     print(str(c))
title: The HST Guide Star Catalog, Version GSC-ACT (Lasker+ 1996-99)
url: http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/votable/-A?-source=I/255/out&

To get all catalogs in the database:

>>> all_cats = [cat for key, cat in my_db.get_catalogs()]

By default, pedantic is `False`:

>>> from astropy.io.votable.table import PEDANTIC
>>> PEDANTIC()
False

To call a given VO service; In this case, a Cone Search
(also see :ref:`Cone Search Examples <vo-sec-scs-examples>`):

>>> from astropy import coordinates as coord
>>> c = coord.ICRSCoordinates.from_name('47 Tuc')
>>> c
<ICRSCoordinates RA=6.02233 deg, Dec=-72.08144 deg>
>>> result = vos_catalog.call_vo_service(
...     'conesearch_good',
...     kwargs={'RA': c.ra.degrees, 'DEC': c.dec.degrees, 'SR': 0.5},
...     catalog_db='The PMM USNO-A1.0 Catalogue (Monet 1997) 1')
Trying http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/votable/-A?-source=I/243/out&
Downloading ...
WARNING: W22: ... The DEFINITIONS element is deprecated in VOTable 1.1...
WARNING: W03: ... Implictly generating an ID from a name 'RA(ICRS)'...
WARNING: W03: ... Implictly generating an ID from a name 'DE(ICRS)'...
>>> result
<astropy.io.votable.tree.Table at 0x3cc4850>

To repeat the above and suppress *all* the screen outputs (not recommended):

>>> import warnings
>>> with warnings.catch_warnings():
...     warnings.simplefilter('ignore')
...     result = vos_catalog.call_vo_service(
...         'conesearch_good',
...         kwargs={'RA': c.ra.degrees, 'DEC': c.dec.degrees, 'SR': 0.5},
...         catalog_db='The PMM USNO-A1.0 Catalogue (Monet 1997) 1',
...         verbose=False)


.. _vo-sec-client-scs:

Simple Cone Search
------------------

`astropy.vo.client.conesearch` supports VO Simple Cone Search capabilities.

Available databases are generated on the server-side hosted by STScI using
:ref:`vo-sec-validator-validate`. The database used is controlled by
``astropy.vo.client.conesearch.CONESEARCH_DBNAME``, which can be changed
in :ref:`vo-sec-scs-config` below. Here are the available options:

    #. 'conesearch_good'
           Default. Passed validation without critical warnings and exceptions.
    #. 'conesearch_warn'
           Has critical warnings but no exceptions. Use at your own risk.
    #. 'conesearch_exception'
           Has some exceptions. *Never* use this.
    #. 'conesearch_error'
           Has network connection error. *Never* use this.

In the default setting, it searches the good Cone Search services one by one,
stops at the first one that gives non-zero match(es), and returns the result.
Since the list of services are extracted from a Python dictionary, the search
order might differ from call to call. :ref:`vo-sec-scs-examples` below show
how to use non-default search behaviors, where the user has more control of
which catalog(s) to search.

.. note::

    Most services currently fail to parse when ``pedantic=True``.

.. warning::

    When Cone Search returns warnings, user should decide
    whether the results are reliable by inspecting the
    warning codes in `astropy.io.votable.exceptions`.

.. _vo-sec-scs-config:

Configurable Items
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

These parameters are set via :ref:`astropy_config`:

    * ``astropy.utils.data.REMOTE_TIMEOUT``
    * ``astropy.vo.client.conesearch.CONESEARCH_DBNAME``
    * Also depends on
      :ref:`General VO Services Access Configurable Items <vo-sec-vos-config>`

.. _vo-sec-scs-examples:

Examples
^^^^^^^^

>>> from astropy.vo.client import conesearch

Shows a sorted list of Cone Search services to be searched
(to inspect them in detail, see :ref:`vo-sec-client-vos`):

>>> conesearch.list_catalogs()
[u'Guide Star Catalog 2.3 1',
 u'SDSS DR7 - Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release 7 1',
 u'SDSS DR7 - Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release 7 2',
 u'SDSS DR7 - Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release 7 3',
 u'SDSS DR7 - Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release 7 4',
 u'SDSS DR8 - Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release 8 1',
 u'SDSS DR8 - Sloan Digital Sky Survey Data Release 8 2',
 u'The HST Guide Star Catalog, Version 1.1 (Lasker+ 1992) 1',
 u'The HST Guide Star Catalog, Version 1.2 (Lasker+ 1996) 1',
 u'The HST Guide Star Catalog, Version GSC-ACT (Lasker+ 1996-99) 1',
 u'The PMM USNO-A1.0 Catalogue (Monet 1997) 1',
 u'The USNO-A2.0 Catalogue (Monet+ 1998) 1',
 u'Two Micron All Sky Survey (2MASS) 1',
 u'Two Micron All Sky Survey (2MASS) 2',
 u'USNO-A2 Catalogue 1',
 u'USNO-A2.0 1']

Select a catalog to search:

>>> my_catname = 'The PMM USNO-A1.0 Catalogue (Monet 1997) 1'

By default, pedantic is `False`:

>>> from astropy.io.votable.table import PEDANTIC
>>> PEDANTIC()
False

Perform Cone Search in the selected catalog above for 0.5 degree radius
around 47 Tucanae with minimum verbosity, if supported.
The ``catalog_db`` keyword gives control over which catalog(s) to use.
If running this for the first time, a copy of the catalogs database will be
downloaded to local cache. To run this again without
using cached data, set ``cache=False``:

>>> from astropy import coordinates as coord
>>> c = coord.ICRSCoordinates.from_name('47 Tuc')
>>> c
<ICRSCoordinates RA=6.02233 deg, Dec=-72.08144 deg>
>>> result = conesearch.conesearch(
...     c.ra.degrees, c.dec.degrees, 0.5, catalog_db=my_catname)
Trying http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/votable/-A?-source=I/243/out&
Downloading ...
WARNING: W22: ... The DEFINITIONS element is deprecated in VOTable 1.1...

To run the command above using custom timeout of
30 seconds for each Cone Search service query:

>>> from astropy.utils.data import REMOTE_TIMEOUT
>>> with REMOTE_TIMEOUT.set_temp(30):
...     result = conesearch.conesearch(
...         c.ra.degrees, c.dec.degrees, 0.5, catalog_db=my_catname)

To suppress *all* the screen outputs (not recommended):

>>> import warnings
>>> with warnings.catch_warnings():
...     warnings.simplefilter('ignore')
...     result = conesearch.conesearch(
...         c.ra.degrees, c.dec.degrees, 0.5, catalog_db=my_catname,
...         verbose=False)

Extract Numpy array containing the matched objects. See
`numpy` for available operations:

>>> cone_arr = result.array.data
>>> cone_arr
array([(0.499298, 4.403473, -72.124045, '0150-00088188'),
       (0.499075, 4.403906, -72.122762, '0150-00088198'),
       (0.499528, 4.404531, -72.045198, '0150-00088210'), ...,
       (0.4988, 7.641731, -72.113156, '0150-00225965'),
       (0.499554, 7.645489, -72.103167, '0150-00226134'),
       (0.499917, 7.6474, -72.0876, '0150-00226223')], 
      dtype=[('_r', '<f8'), ('_RAJ2000', '<f8'), ('_DEJ2000', '<f8'),
             ('USNO-A1.0', '|S13')])
>>> cone_arr.dtype.names
('_r', '_RAJ2000', '_DEJ2000', 'USNO-A1.0')
>>> cone_arr.size
36184
>>> ra_list = cone_arr['_RAJ2000']
>>> ra_list
array([ 4.403473,  4.403906,  4.404531, ...,  7.641731,  7.645489,  7.6474  ])
>>> cone_arr[0]  # First row
(0.499298, 4.403473, -72.124045, '0150-00088188')
>>> cone_arr[-1]  # Last row
(0.499917, 7.6474, -72.0876, '0150-00226223')
>>> cone_arr[:10]  # First 10 rows
array([(0.499298, 4.403473, -72.124045, '0150-00088188'),
       (0.499075, 4.403906, -72.122762, '0150-00088198'),
       (0.499528, 4.404531, -72.045198, '0150-00088210'),
       (0.497252, 4.406078, -72.095045, '0150-00088245'),
       (0.499739, 4.406462, -72.139545, '0150-00088254'),
       (0.496312, 4.410623, -72.110492, '0150-00088372'),
       (0.49473, 4.415053, -72.071217, '0150-00088494'),
       (0.494171, 4.415939, -72.087512, '0150-00088517'),
       (0.493722, 4.417678, -72.0972, '0150-00088572'),
       (0.495147, 4.418262, -72.047142, '0150-00088595')],
      dtype=[('_r', '<f8'), ('_RAJ2000', '<f8'), ('_DEJ2000', '<f8'),
             ('USNO-A1.0', '|S13')])

Sort the matched objects by angular separation in ascending order:

>>> import numpy as np
>>> sep = cone_arr['_r']
>>> i_sorted = np.argsort(sep)
>>> cone_arr[i_sorted]
array([(0.081971, 5.917787, -72.006075, '0150-00145335'),
       (0.083181, 6.020339, -72.164623, '0150-00149799'),
       (0.089166, 5.732798, -72.077698, '0150-00137181'), ...,
       (0.499981, 7.024962, -72.477503, '0150-00198745'),
       (0.499987, 6.423773, -71.597364, '0150-00168596'),
       (0.499989, 6.899589, -72.5043, '0150-00192872')], 
      dtype=[('_r', '<f8'), ('_RAJ2000', '<f8'), ('_DEJ2000', '<f8'),
             ('USNO-A1.0', '|S13')])

Result can also be manipulated as :ref:`astropy-io-votable`
and its unit can be manipulated as :ref:`astropy-units`.
In this example, we convert RA values from degree to arcsec:

>>> from astropy import units as u
>>> ra_field = result.get_field_by_id('_RAJ2000')
>>> ra_field.title
u'Right ascension (FK5, Equinox=J2000.0) (computed by VizieR, ...)'
>>> ra_field.unit
Unit("deg")
>>> ra_field.unit.to(u.arcsec) * ra_list
array([ 15852.5028,  15854.0616,  15856.3116, ...,  27510.2316,
        27523.7604,  27530.64  ])

Perform the same Cone Search as above but asynchronously using
`~astropy.vo.client.conesearch.AsyncConeSearch`.
Queries to individual Cone Search services are still governed by
``astropy.utils.data.REMOTE_TIMEOUT``. Cone Search is forced
to run in silent mode asynchronously, but warnings are still
controlled by :py:mod:`warnings`:

>>> async_search = conesearch.AsyncConeSearch(
...     c.ra.degrees, c.dec.degrees, 0.5, catalog_db=my_catname)

Check asynchronous search status:

>>> async_search.running()
True
>>> async_search.done()
False

Get search results after a 30-second wait (not to be
confused with ``astropy.utils.data.REMOTE_TIMEOUT`` that
governs individual Cone Search queries). If search is still not
done after 30 seconds, ``TimeoutError`` is raised. Otherwise,
Cone Search result is returned and can be manipulated as
above. If no ``timeout`` keyword given, it waits until
completion:

>>> async_result = async_search.get(timeout=30)
>>> cone_arr = async_result.array.data
>>> cone_arr.size
36184

Estimate the execution time and the number of objects for
the Cone Search service URL from above. The prediction naively
assumes a linear model, which might not be accurate for some cases.
It also uses the normal :func:`~astropy.vo.client.conesearch.conesearch`,
not the asynchronous version. This example uses a custom
timeout of 30 seconds and runs silently (except for warnings):

>>> result.url
u'http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/votable/-A?-source=I/243/out&'
>>> with REMOTE_TIMEOUT.set_temp(30):
...     t_est, n_est = conesearch.predict_search(
...         result.url, c.ra.degrees, c.dec.degrees, 0.5,
...         verbose=False, plot=True)
WARNING: W22: ... The DEFINITIONS element is deprecated in VOTable 1.1...
# ...
>>> t_est  # Predicted execution time
19.272144977377838
>>> n_est  # Predicted number of objects
37340

.. image:: images/client_predict_search_t.png
    :width: 450px
    :alt: Example plot from conesearch.predict_search() for t_est

.. image:: images/client_predict_search_n.png
    :width: 450px
    :alt: Example plot from conesearch.predict_search() for n_est

For debugging purpose, one can obtain the actual execution time
and number of objects, and compare them with the predicted values
above. The INFO message shown in controlled by `astropy.logger`.
Keep in mind that running this for every prediction
would defeat the purpose of the prediction itself:

>>> t_real, tab = conesearch.conesearch_timer(
...     c.ra.degrees, c.dec.degrees, 0.5, catalog_db=result.url, verbose=False)
INFO: conesearch_timer took 11.5103080273 s on AVERAGE for 1 call(s). [...]
>>> t_real  # Actual execution time
11.510308027267456
>>> tab.array.size  # Actual number of objects
36184

One can also search in a list of catalogs instead of a single one.
In this example, we look for all catalogs containing 'guide*star' in their
titles and only perform Cone Search using those services.
The first catalog in the list to successfully return non-zero result is used.
Therefore, the order of catalog names given in ``catalog_db`` is important:

>>> gsc_cats = conesearch.list_catalogs(pattern='guide*star')
>>> gsc_cats
[u'Guide Star Catalog 2.3 1',
 u'The HST Guide Star Catalog, Version 1.1 (Lasker+ 1992) 1',
 u'The HST Guide Star Catalog, Version 1.2 (Lasker+ 1996) 1',
 u'The HST Guide Star Catalog, Version GSC-ACT (Lasker+ 1996-99) 1']
>>> gsc_result = conesearch.conesearch(
...     c.ra.degrees, c.dec.degrees, 0.5, catalog_db=gsc_cats)
Trying http://gsss.stsci.edu/webservices/vo/ConeSearch.aspx?CAT=GSC23&
WARNING: W25: ... failed with: timed out [...]
Trying http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/votable/-A?-source=I/220/out&
Downloading ...
WARNING: W22: ... The DEFINITIONS element is deprecated in VOTable 1.1...
>>> gsc_result.array.size
2997
>>> gsc_result.url
u'http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/votable/-A?-source=I/220/out&'

To repeat the Cone Search above with the services listed in a
different order:

>>> gsc_cats_reordered = [gsc_cats[i] for i in (3, 1, 2, 0)]
>>> gsc_cats_reordered
[u'The HST Guide Star Catalog, Version GSC-ACT (Lasker+ 1996-99) 1',
 u'The HST Guide Star Catalog, Version 1.1 (Lasker+ 1992) 1',
 u'The HST Guide Star Catalog, Version 1.2 (Lasker+ 1996) 1',
 u'Guide Star Catalog 2.3 1']
>>> gsc_result = conesearch.conesearch(
...     c.ra.degrees, c.dec.degrees, 0.5, catalog_db=gsc_cats_reordered)
Trying http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/votable/-A?-source=I/255/out&
Downloading ...
WARNING: W22: ... The DEFINITIONS element is deprecated in VOTable 1.1...
>>> gsc_result.array.size
2997
>>> gsc_result.url
u'http://vizier.u-strasbg.fr/viz-bin/votable/-A?-source=I/255/out&'

If one is unable to obtain any results using the default
Cone Search database, 'conesearch_good', that only contains
sites that cleanly passed validation, one can use :ref:`astropy_config`
to use another database, 'conesearch_warn', containing sites with
validation warnings. One should use these sites with caution:

>>> conesearch.CONESEARCH_DBNAME.set('conesearch_warn')
>>> conesearch.list_catalogs()
Downloading http://stsdas.stsci.edu/astrolib/vo_databases/conesearch_warn.json
|===========================================|  87k/ 87k (100.00%)        00s
[u'2MASS All-Sky Catalog of Point Sources (Cutri+ 2003) 1',
 u'2MASS All-Sky Point Source Catalog 1',
 u'Data release 7 of Sloan Digital Sky Survey catalogs 1',
 u'Data release 7 of Sloan Digital Sky Survey catalogs 2',
 u'Data release 7 of Sloan Digital Sky Survey catalogs 3',
 u'Data release 7 of Sloan Digital Sky Survey catalogs 4',
 u'Data release 7 of Sloan Digital Sky Survey catalogs 5',
 u'Data release 7 of Sloan Digital Sky Survey catalogs 6',
 u'The 2MASS All-Sky Catalog 1',
 u'The 2MASS All-Sky Catalog 2',
 u'The USNO-B1.0 Catalog (Monet+ 2003) 1',
 u'The USNO-B1.0 Catalog 1',
 u'USNO-A V2.0, A Catalog of Astrometric Standards 1',
 u'USNO-B1 Catalogue 1']
